docs: dfns new signer (#313)
alchemyplatform/aa-sdk: site/smart-accounts/signers/guides/dfns.md

---
outline: deep
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: Dfns
  - - meta
    - name: description

>       content: Guide for using Dfns as a signer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Guide for using Dfns as a Signer
```

  - - meta
    - property: og:description

>       content: Guide for using Dfns as a signer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Guide for using Dfns as a Signer
```

---

# Dfns Integration Guide

> [Dfns](https://www.dfns.co) is an MPC/TSS Wallet-as-a-Service API/SDK provider. We have optimized the balance of security and UX by deploying key shares into a decentralized network on the backend while enabling wallet access via biometric open standards on the frontend like Webauthn. [Ping us](https://www.dfns.co/learn-more) to set up a sandbox environment to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dfns](https://www.dfns.co) is an MPC/TSS Wallet-as-a-Service API/SDK provider. Dfns aims to optimize the balance of security and UX by deploying key shares into a decentralized network on the backend while enabling wallet access via biometric open standards on the frontend like Webauthn. Reach out [here](https://www.dfns.co/learn-more) to set up a sandbox environment to get started.
```

> Dfns seamlessly integrates with Account Abstraction by signing User Operations. We've created a full example of a gasless transaction via a paymaster [in our SDK](https://github.com/dfns/dfns-sdk-ts/tree/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless) adapted from Alchemy's [sponsor gas example](https://accountkit.alchemy.com/guides/sponsoring-gas.html). Clone the repo to get started and see the comments in the [Readme](https://github.com/dfns/dfns-sdk-ts/tree/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dfns seamlessly integrates with Account Abstraction by signing `UserOperation`s. We've created a full example of a gas-less transaction via a paymaster [in our SDK](https://github.com/dfns/dfns-sdk-ts/tree/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless), adapted from Alchemy's [gas sponsorship example](https://accountkit.alchemy.com/guides/sponsoring-gas.html). Clone the repo to get started and see the comments in the [Readme](https://github.com/dfns/dfns-sdk-ts/tree/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless/README.md).
```

## Install Dfns SDK

::: code-group

```bash [npm]
npm i @dfns/lib-viem @dfns/sdk @dfns/sdk-keysigner
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @dfns/lib-viem @dfns/sdk @dfns/sdk-keysigner
```

:::

### Create a Dfns SmartAccountSigner

> Setup the Dfns Web3 Provider and wrap it in an AlchemyProvider. See the Dfns example [Readme](https://github.com/dfnsext/typescript-sdk/blob/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless/README.md) for detail on populating the environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup the Dfns Web3 Provider and wrap it in an AlchemyProvider. See the Dfns example [Readme](https://github.com/dfnsext/typescript-sdk/blob/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless/README.md) for details on populating the environment variables.
```

```ts
import {
  LightSmartContractAccount,
  getDefaultLightAccountFactoryAddress,
} from "@alchemy/aa-accounts";
import { AlchemyProvider } from "@alchemy/aa-alchemy";
import { LocalAccountSigner } from "@alchemy/aa-core";
import { DfnsWallet } from "@dfns/lib-viem";
import { DfnsApiClient } from "@dfns/sdk";
import { AsymmetricKeySigner } from "@dfns/sdk-keysigner";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { encodeFunctionData, parseAbi } from "viem";
import { toAccount } from "viem/accounts";
import { sepolia } from "viem/chains";

dotenv.config();

> const initDfnsWallet = (walletId: string) => {

Reviewer: can you make this a snippet and add it to `site/snippets/dfns.ts`? feel free to look at the other signers to see how they do this.

  const signer = new AsymmetricKeySigner({
    privateKey: process.env.DFNS_PRIVATE_KEY!,
    credId: process.env.DFNS_CRED_ID!,
    appOrigin: process.env.DFNS_APP_ORIGIN!,
  });

  const dfnsClient = new DfnsApiClient({
    appId: process.env.DFNS_APP_ID!,
    authToken: process.env.DFNS_AUTH_TOKEN!,
    baseUrl: process.env.DFNS_API_URL!,
    signer,
  });

  return DfnsWallet.init({
    walletId,
    dfnsClient,
    maxRetries: 10,
  });
};

> const alchemyProvider = async (): Promise<AlchemyProvider> => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const createAlchemyProvider = async (): Promise<AlchemyProvider> => {
```

  const sepoliaWallet = await initDfnsWallet(process.env.SEPOLIA_WALLET_ID!);
  const account = toAccount(sepoliaWallet);
  const eoaSigner = new LocalAccountSigner(account);

  return new AlchemyProvider({
    apiKey: process.env.ALCHEMY_SEPOLIA_KEY!,
    chain: sepolia,
  }).connect(
    (rpcClient) =>
      new LightSmartContractAccount({
        chain: sepolia,
        owner: eoaSigner,
        factoryAddress: getDefaultLightAccountFactoryAddress(sepolia),
        rpcClient,
      })
  );
};
```

### Execute a Gasless Transaction

```ts
const main = async () => {

>   const provider = await alchemyProvider();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const provider = await createAlchemyProvider();
```

  const address = await provider.getAddress();
  console.log(`Smart account address: ${address}`);

  // link the provider with the Gas Manager. This ensures user operations
  // sent with this provider get sponsorship from the Gas Manager.
  provider.withAlchemyGasManager({
    policyId: process.env.ALCHEMY_GAS_POLICY_ID!,
  });

>   const alchemyToken = "0x6F3c1baeF15F2Ac6eD52ef897f60cac0B10d90C3";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const nftContractAddress = "0x6F3c1baeF15F2Ac6eD52ef897f60cac0B10d90C3";
```

  // send a sponsored user operation to mint some tokens
  const { hash: uoHash } = await provider.sendUserOperation({

>     target: alchemyToken,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    target: nftContractAddress,
```

We've created a full example of a gas-less transaction via a paymaster [in our SDK](https://github.com/dfnsext/typescript-sdk/blob/m/examples/viem/alchemy-aa-gasless/README.md), adapted from Alchemy's [gas sponsorship example](https://accountkit.alchemy.com/guides/sponsoring-gas.html).

## Install Dfns SDK

::: code-group

```bash [npm]
npm i @dfns/lib-viem @dfns/sdk @dfns/sdk-keysigner
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @dfns/lib-viem @dfns/sdk @dfns/sdk-keysigner
```

:::

### Create a SmartAccountSigner

Setup the Dfns Web3 Provider and wrap it in an AlchemyProvider.

<<< @/snippets/dfns.ts

### Use it with Light Account

::: code-group

```ts [example.ts]
import { AlchemyProvider } from "@alchemy/aa-alchemy";
import {
  LightSmartContractAccount,
  getDefaultLightAccountFactoryAddress,
} from "@alchemy/aa-accounts";
import { encodeFunctionData, parseAbi } from "viem";
import { sepolia } from "viem/chains";
import { createDfnsSigner } from "./dfns";

// Remember to replace "ALCHEMY_API_KEY" with your own Alchemy API key, get one here: https://dashboard.alchemy.com/

> const ALCHEMY_API_KEY = null;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const ALCHEMY_API_KEY = "API_KEY";
```

const chain = sepolia;

> const createDfnsAlchemyProvider = async (): Promise<AlchemyProvider> => {

Reviewer: un-label the provider to be inline with other examples
```suggestion
const provider = async (): Promise<AlchemyProvider> => {
```
